docs: Tyk 5.8.13 release notes (#1851)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/gateway.mdx

## 5.8 Release Notes

### 5.8.13 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx April 2026

#### Release Highlights

> Tyk Gateway has been updated to Go 1.25 and Debian 13 (Trixie) for enhanced security and performance, including updated FIPS-compliant images. This release addresses multiple CVEs in dependent libraries and resolves issues, including route priority logic in ValidateRequest middleware, unnecessary pod restarts during Redis outages, and certificate caching failures in data plane gateways during MDCB outages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk Gateway has been updated to Go 1.25 and Debian 13 (Trixie) for enhanced security and performance, including updated FIPS-compliant images. This release addresses multiple CVEs in dependent libraries and resolves a path matching inconsistency for Tyk OAS APIs. It also resurrects two fixes that have been missing since Tyk 5.8.6.
```

#### Deprecations

No deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions

If you are upgrading to 5.8.13, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk).

#### Downloads

- [Docker image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-gateway/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.8.13)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-gateway:v5.8.13
    ``` 
- Helm charts
  - [tyk-charts v5.1.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#5-1-0-release-notes)

- [Source code tarball of Tyk Gateway v5.8.13](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/releases/tag/v5.8.13)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.8.13" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Changed

<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Updated Go version to 1.25'>
The Tyk Gateway has been updated to Golang 1.25, improving security by staying up-to-date with Go versions.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Update Docker images to Debian 13 (Trixie)'>
Updated the Docker images for Tyk Gateway to Debian 13 (Trixie) to address multiple vulnerabilities in the underlying operating system.
</Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

##### Fixed

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Fix route priority logic for ValidateRequest middleware'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fixed path matching inconsistency for Tyk OAS APIs'>
```

> Resolved an issue where parameterized paths could incorrectly take precedence over static paths when using the ValidateRequest middleware in Tyk OAS APIs. Static paths will now correctly bypass validation if not explicitly configured, restoring the expected routing behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved an issue where parameterized paths could incorrectly take precedence over static paths when using the Request Validation or Mock Response middleware in Tyk OAS APIs. Static paths will now correctly bypass these middleware if not explicitly configured, restoring the expected routing behavior.
```

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Prevented unnecessary Gateway pod restarts during Redis outages'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Gateway /hello endpoint behaviour restored when Redis is unavailable'>
```

> Resolved an issue where the Gateway's liveness health check endpoint (`/hello`) incorrectly returned a 503 Service Unavailable status during Redis downtime, causing Kubernetes to trigger `CrashLoopBackOff` and restart healthy Gateway pods unnecessarily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reverted the change introduced in versions 5.9.0 and 5.8.3 to the /hello health check endpoint, restoring its original functionality. This fix resolves an issue where the endpoint returned a 503 error when Redis was down. The /hello endpoint now correctly returns HTTP 200 during normal operations, ensuring compatibility with Kubernetes liveness and readiness probes.
```

> The Gateway now maintains healthy liveness probe responses during Redis outages, ensuring pod stability and service continuity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_This issue was originally fixed in Tyk 5.8.4 but then was omitted from Tyk 5.8.6 onwards_
```

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Fixed certificate caching in data plane gateways during MDCB outages'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Gateways in Distributed Data Planes Were Unable To Perform mTLS When MDCB Link Unavailable'>
```

> Resolved an issue where data plane gateways were not caching certificates in local Redis storage, preventing them from functioning when MDCB became unavailable. Gateways can now reliably serve HTTPS and handle client/upstream mTLS traffic even during MDCB outages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved an issue introduced in Tyk 5.7.1 where Gateways in distributed Data Planes failed to cache TLS certificates correctly in the local Redis, resulting in potential service disruptions if MDCB became unavailable. Data plane gateways now reliably serve HTTPS and mTLS traffic even if MDCB is unavailable.

_This issue was originally fixed in Tyk 5.8.2 but then was omitted from Tyk 5.8.6 onwards_
```
